now it shall come to pass if you
diligently obey the voice of the Lord
your God to observe carefully all his
commandments which I command you today
that the Lord your God will set you high
above all nations of the earth and all
these blessings shall come upon you and
overtake you because you obey the voice
of the Lord your God blessed shall you
be in City and blessed shall you be in
the country
[Music]
the
it shall be the fruit of your body the
produce of your ground and the increase
of your herds the increase of your
cattle and the offspring of your flocks
bless it shall be your basket and your
kneading Bowl blessed shall you be when
you come in and blessed shall you be
when you go out the Lord will cause your
enemies rise against you to be defeated
before your face they shall come out
against you one way and flee before you
seven wavers the Lord will command the
blessing on you in your storehouses and
in all through which you set your hand
and he will bless you in the land which
the Lord your God is giving you the Lord
will establish you as a holy people to
himself just as he has sworn to you if
you keep the commandments of the Lord
your God and walk in his ways
then all peoples of the earth shall see
that you are cold by the name
the Lord and they shall be afraid of you
and the Lord will grant you plenty of
Goods in the fruit of your body in the
increase of your livestock and in the
produce of your ground in the land of
which the Lord swore to your father's to
give you the Lord will open to you his
good treasure the heavens to give the
rain to your land in its season and to
bless all the work of your hand you
shall lend many nations but you shall
not borrow and the Lord will make you
the head and not the tail you shall be
above only and not be beneath if you
heed the commandments of the Lord your
God which I command you today and are
careful to observe them so you shall not
turn aside from any of the words which I
command you this day to the right or the
left to go after other gods to serve
them but it shall come to pass if you do
not obey the voice of the Lord your God
to observe carefully all his
Commandments and his statutes which I
command you today that all these curses
will come upon you and overtake you
curses shall you be in the city
and Curson shall you be in the country
curses shall be your basket and you're
needing Bowl curse it shall be the fruit
of your body and the produce of your
land the increase of your cattle and the
offspring of your flocks curse it shall
you be when you come in and curse it
shall you be when you go out the Lord
will send on you cursing confusion and
rebuke in all that you set your hand to
do until you are destroyed and until you
perish quickly because of the wickedness
of your doings in which you have
forsaken me the Lord will make the
plague cling to you until he has
consumed you from the land which you are
going to possess the Lord will strike
you with consumption with fever with
inflammation with severe burning fever
with the sword with scorching and with
mildew they shall pursue you until you
perish and your heavens which are over
your head shall be bronzed and the earth
which is under you shall be iron
the Lord will change the rain of your
land to powder and dust from the heaven
it shall come down on you until you are
destroyed the Lord will cause you to be
defeated before your enemies you shall
go out one way against them and flee
seven ways before them and you shall
become troublesome to all the kingdoms
of the earth your carcasses shall be
food for all the birds of the air and
the beasts of the earth and no one shall
frighten them away the Lord will strike
you with the boils of Egypt with tumors
with the scab and with the itch from
which you cannot be healed the Lord will
strike you with madness and blindness
and the confusion of heart and you shall
grope at noonday as a blind man gropes
in darkness you shall not prosper in
your ways you shall be only oppressed
and plundered continually and no one
shall save you you shall be throw the
wife but another man shall lie with her
you shall build a house but you shall
not dwell in it you shall plant a
vineyard but shall not gather its grapes
your arks shall be slaughtered before
your eyes but you shall not eat of it
your donkey shall be
violently taken away from before you and
shall not be restored to you your sheep
shall be given to your enemies and you
shall have no one to rescue them your
sons and your daughters shall be given
to another people and your eyes shall
look and fail with longing for them all
day long and there shall be no strength
in your hand a nation whom you have not
known shall eat the fruit of your land
and the produce of your labor and you
shall be only oppressed and crushed
continually so you shall be driven mad
because of the sight which your high is
see the Lord will strike you in the
knees and on the legs with severe boils
which cannot be healed and from the sole
of your foot to the top of your head the
Lord will bring you and the king when
you set over you to a nation which
neither you nor your fathers have known
and there you shall serve other gods
wood
and still and you shall become an
astonishment a proverb and a byword
among all nations where the Lord will
drive you you shall carry much seed out
to the field but gather little in for
the locust shall consume it you shall
plant vineyards and tend them but you
shall neither drink of the wine nor
gather the grapes for the worms shall
eats them you shall have olive trees
throughout all your territory but you
shall not anoint yourself with the oil
for your olives shall drop off you shall
beget sons and daughters but they shall
not be yours for they shall go into
captivity locusts shall consume all your
trees and the produce of your land the
alien who is among you shall rise higher
and higher above you and you shall come
down lower and
lower he shall lend to you but you shall
not lend to him he shall be the head and
you shall be the tail moreover all these
curses shall come upon you and pursue
and overtake you until you are destroyed
because you did not obey the voice of
the Lord your God to keep his
Commandments and his statutes which he
commanded you and they shall be upon you
for a sign and a wonder and on your
descendants forever because you did not
serve the Lord your God with joy and
gladness of heart for the abundance of
everything therefore you shall serve
your enemies whom the Lord will send
against you in hunger in thirst in
nakedness and in need of everything and
he will put a yoke of iron on your neck
until he has destroyed you the Lord will
bring a nation against you from afar
from the end of the earth as Swift as
the eagle flies a nation whose language
you will not
and a nation of fierce countenance which
does not respect the elderly nor show
favor to the young and they shall eat
the increase of your livestock and the
produce of your land until you are
destroyed they shall not leave you
grain or new wine or oil or the increase
of your cattle or the offspring of your
Fox until they have destroyed you they
shall besiege you at all your gates
until you're high and fortified walls in
which you trust come down throughout all
your land and they shall besiege you at
all your gates throughout all your land
which the Lord your God has given you
you shall eat the fruit of your own body
the flesh of your sons and your
daughters the Lord your God has given
you in the siege and desperate straits
in which your enemy shall distress you
the sensitive and very refined man among
you will be hostile warden
brother toward the wife of his bosom and
toward the rest of his children whom he
leaves behind so that he will not give
any of them the flesh of his children
whom he will eat because he has nothing
left in the siege and desperate straits
in which your enemy shall distress you
at all your gates the tender and
delicate woman among you who would not
venture to set the sole of her foot on
the ground because of her delicateness
and sensitivity will refuse to the
husband of her bosom and to her son and
her daughter her placenta which comes
out from between her feet and her
children whom she bears for she will eat
them secretly for lack of everything in
the siege and desperate straits in which
your enemy shall distress you at all
your gates if you do not carefully
observe all the words of this law that
are written in this book that you may
fear this glorious and awesome name the
Lord your God then the Lord will bring
upon you and your descendants
extraordinary plagues great and
prolonged plagues and serious and
prolonged sicknesses moreover he will
bring back on you
all the diseases of each of which you
were afraid and say shall cling to you
also every sickness and every plague
which is not written in this book of the
law will the Lord bring upon you until
you are destroyed you shall be left few
in number whereas you were as the stars
of heaven in multitude because you would
not obey the voice of the Lord your God
and it shall be that just as the Lord
rejoiced over you to do you good and
multiply you so the Lord will rejoice
over you to destroy you and bring you to
nothing and you shall be plucked from
off the land which you go to possess
then the Lord will scatter you among all
peoples from one end of the earth to the
other and there you shall serve other
gods which neither you nor your fathers
have known wood and stone and among
those nations you shall find no rest nor
shall the sole of your foot have a
resting place but there the Lord will
give you
a trembling heart failing eyes and
anguish of soul your life shall hang in
doubt before you you shall fear day and
night and have no assurance of life in
the morning you shall say oh that it
were evening and that evening you shall
say oh that it were morning because of
the fear which terrifies your heart and
because of the sight which our eyes see
and the Lord will take you back to Egypt
in ships by the way of which I said to
you you shall never see it again and
there you shall be offered for sale to
your enemies as male and female slaves
but no one will buy you